# Scale-of-Effect

This is a repository for sharing a dataset involving ant-plant relationships recorded within the Los Tuxtlas Biosphere Reserve (n= 16 landscapes), Veracruz, Mexico. This dataset was previously published by our research group in Corro et al. (2019). 
Each line in the dataset represents an ecological interaction between a plant species and a ant species.
Which at each landscape, we made a 50 x 40 m quadrant (in which its center represented the centroid of the buffer) and walked recording all ants on plants that was accessible to the collector (from 0.5 m to 3 m high) and 10 meters apart to minimize the overestimation of abundant species and the effect of nest closeness. Specifically, we choose the first plant in a corner of each quadrant and recorded a plant every 10 m until the entire quadrant had been sampled. We placed 1 m2 blanket under the branches of each sampled plant and the foliage was then shaken to collect all ants that fell into the blanket. Field surveys were conducted between 9:00 am and 4:00 pm. In general, the types of biotic interactions involving ant–plant relationships are hard to classify in the field without performing specific experiments. Therefore, our ant-plant relationships represent a wide variety of biotic interactions, such as (i) mutualism (e.g., ant–plant protection systems), (ii) neutralism (e.g., ants using plants only as substrates for foraging and patrolling), (iii) antagonism (e.g., leaf-cutter ants), and (iv) complex indirect associations that can be considered both positive and negative. 

Reference
Corro, E. J., Ahuatzin, D. A., Aguirre, A., Favila, M. E., Ribeiro, M. C., Acosta, J. C. L., Dáttilo, W. 2019. Forest cover and landscape heterogeneity shape ant-plant co-occurrence networks in human-dominated tropical rainforests. Landscape Ecology 34: 93-104.
